All right.
In this video we're going to look at the display property with the values inline block and inline block.
Now display is very important because that's actually how we implement flex blocks.
That's how we implement the CSX grid.
But we're not going to get to that just yet and we'll do that a little later.
So in this video I want to show you how to turn block level elements into inline and vice versa.
And also look at inline block.
So let's create a new file called let's call it 10 underscore inline underscore block dot h t AML
and I'm just going to close this up and for the title will say inline and block styling.
Okay.
So in the body I'm going to start off with a well I guess I only only even need to give it we're only
we're going to only going to have one you l so we'll just use that as a selector.
But this is gonna be like a menu.
So we'll do in a tag in here
so go just nowhere and let's say that these are like categories maybe it's I don't know a list of blog
posts or something like that so we'll just say like technology and for this one let's say business and
I don't know fashion.
All right.
So let's go ahead and open this up.
And by default list items are block level.
Right.
If we open up our our tools and we we use our element selector we look at the list item you can see
that it goes all the way across and it knocks the next one down.
So that that's a block level element.
Now we can change that to be inline and in fact this could be a way to create a horizontal menu horizontal
navigation.
So let's go up into our styling and let's grab on to the UL and let's set it to.
I'm sorry not the well the ally
and let's set it to display in line and save.
So notice that now it's going this way.
And the bullets are no longer showing either.
Now you probably want to spread these out a little bit so we could do like Actually I'd probably put
these on the on the links so ally a and let's set padding right to 10 pixels.
So it's going to spread them apart.
Actually it's 220.
All right.
So that's how we can change block level elements to inline.
Now let's take an inline elements such as an image and make it block level and I'm gonna give you a.
I'm going to show you a reason why you would do this.
So let's put a couple of line breaks in and we'll put in an image and inside of our folder we still
have the AMG folder with the leaf dot PMG.
I'm going to use that.
So and here let's do dot slash.
So the current directory.
It go into the image directory and We want Leaf PMG for the all.
I'll just say my image and save that.
OK.
Now this is an inline image or I'm sorry an inline element.
If we grab the selector and we take a look you see how it doesn't go all the way across.
If I were to put another image in.
Actually if I just duplicate this and save it's going to go next to it it doesn't get pushed on to the
next line.
Now I want to make this a block level element when we get rid of one of these.
And the reason I want to do that is because I want to add margin Otto because I want it in the middle.
If I were to do that now
if I were to do that now nothing happens because we can't do this.
We can't do margin auto on an inline element.
Okay.
It needs it needs to be block level so we'll simply say display block and save.
And now we can actually add margin auto.
I can't tell you how how confusing that was to me a long time ago when I was just trying to simply center
an image and margin auto just wouldn't work.
I didn't realize that the the element had to be be display block to be able to do that.
All right.
So that's it.
These are two situations where you would want to display something that's normally in line.
I'm sorry.
Normally block is in line and normally in line is block.
Now let's say we want some divs here some some box divs like we've been dealing with just going to put
a couple of line breaks and let's do a class of box and an H three just say heading and then let's put
paragraph Lorem 20
and let's say we have three of these
OK.
Go ahead and save that and let's say we want to align these going across.
Actually know what.
First let's style them a little bit just so we can kind of see the outline and stuff like that.
So we'll do what we've been doing.
Just give him a quick background.
Border actually let's not even Sullivan do a border let's just do padding 20 pixels.
What else do margin bottom 15 pixel.
And we want these to display horizontally.
So obviously we need a width right.
So with let's do thirty two percent now if I save that we get that with.
But they're still on top of each other because by default divs are displayed as block.
So maybe we just need to do inline.
Right.
Let's do display in line and save.
And that doesn't work and be the reason this isn't working.
And it'll show you right in here and V.S. code that this property width is being ignored because display
you can't use with on inline.
OK.
And the margin is also being ignored.
So the solution to this if we want these to go across is to use inline block which is basically like
a mix of both.
It goes horizontal but it also allows us to add widths.
So let's change it to inline Dash.
BLOCK And save.
Now this is getting knocked on to the next line because again we have padding.
So that's getting added to the width because we didn't add the box sizing properties so let's go up
here
and let's say box.
Actually no.
Let's just put it that's you.
That's what I.
I'll usually do.
But we can just put it in here.
So box sizing order box and save.
And now you'll see that there are lying side by side.
You can probably even do 33.
No let's do like thirty two point.
I don't think I mentioned that we can do decimals and percentages like that.
OK.
So that looks pretty cool actually.
But yeah that's so we have display inline display block and display inline block and then later on we
get to flex we can do display flex.
We can also do display grid.
And I'm going to I'm going to talk all about that and the different properties that are associated with
that as well but yeah.
So that's that's that in the next video we're going to look at positioning there's different types of
positioning relative absolute fixed.
So I want to explain what the differences between all of those in the next video.